LGTM deprecation: Update basic queries to use VS Code (#11423)
github/codeql: docs/codeql/codeql-language-guides/basic-query-for-cpp-code.rst

Basic query for C and C++ code
==============================

Learn to write and run a simple CodeQL query using Visual Studio Code with the CodeQL extension.

> .. include:: ../reusables/setup-to-run-queries.rst

Author: I've added this placeholder here so that it's easy to update this as we steadily make it easier to get started with running CodeQL queries.

   if (error) { }

Finding a CodeQL database to experiment with
--------------------------------------------

Before you start writing queries, you need a CodeQL database to run them against. The simplest way to do this is to download a database directly from GitHub.com.

#. In Visual Studio Code, click the **QL** icon |codeql-ext-icon| in the left sidebar to display the CodeQL extension. 

#. Click **From GitHub** or the GitHub logo |github-db| at the top of the CodeQL extension to open an entry field.

> #. Copy the URL for the repository into the field and press the keyboard **Enter** key.

Author: ❓ Do we want to suggest an example repository here? For example, https://github.com/protocolbuffers/protobuf.

Reviewer: Yes, I think that's quite helpful 😄

#. Optionally, if the repository has more than one CodeQL database available, choose which language to download.

Information about the progress of the database download is shown in the bottom right corner of Visual Studio Code. When the download is complete, the database is shown with a check mark in the **Databases** section of the CodeQL extension.

.. image:: ../images/codeql-for-visual-studio-code/database-selected.png
       :align: center
       :width: 500

Running the query
-----------------

#. In Visual Studio Code, create a new folder to store your experimental queries for C and C++ CodeQL databases. For example, ``cpp-experiments``.

#. Create a ``qlpack.yml`` file in your experiments folder with the contents shown below. This tells the CodeQL extension that any queries you create in the folder are intended to run on C or C++ CodeQL databases.

   .. code-block:: yaml

      name: github-owner/cpp-experiments
      version: 0.0.1
      dependencies:
         codeql/cpp-all: ^0.1.2

#. Create a second new file in your experiements folder with the ``.ql`` file extension. You will write your first query in this file.

> 

Reviewer: For simplicity, we could point users to the quick query command here: https://codeql.github.com/docs/codeql-for-visual-studio-code/analyzing-your-projects/#running-a-quick-query

It would save folks having to create a new qlpack.yml file. However, they would have to copy the contents of the synthetic CodeQL pack to somewhere permanent if they wanted to retain their test queries, but that could be an optional extra step at the end of this procedure (and we could simply link to the docs).

        block.getNumStmt() = 0 and
        not ifstmt.hasElse()

#. Re-run the query.

   There are now fewer results because ``if`` statements with an ``else`` branch are no longer reported.

> Saving your quick query for future development

Reviewer: If we can get away with specifying the latest version of the library packs, then maybe this could be turned into a reusable snippet (with a placeholder <lang> instead of cpp as appropriate)?

Author: Many thanks for the review.

🤦🏻‍♀️ I copied this here when I started updating the procedure, and then realized that people could just move/copy the `Quick Query` folder created by the extension to a permanent location, as described on line 79.

I meant to delete this section from line 148 to 164 before committing the changes. Unless you think this would be useful, I suggest that we delete this.

Reviewer: 🔥  (please delete away!)

----------------------------------------------

#. In Visual Studio Code, create a new folder to store your experimental queries for C and C++ CodeQL databases. For example, ``cpp-experiments``.

#. Create a ``qlpack.yml`` file in your experiments folder with the contents shown below. This tells the CodeQL extension that any queries you create in the folder are intended to run on C or C++ CodeQL databases.

   .. code-block:: yaml

      name: github-owner/cpp-experiments
      version: 0.0.1
      dependencies:

>          codeql/cpp-all: ^0.1.2

Reviewer: I'm not up to date withe core library pack versioning, but do you know if would `codeql/cpp-all: *` (latest version) suffice?

> #. Create a second new file in your experiements folder with the ``.ql`` file extension. You will write your first query in this file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Create a second new file in your experiments folder with the ``.ql`` file extension. You can write your next query in this file. You can also copy any of your quick queries from the current session over to the ``cpp-experiments`` folder for future development. 
```
